hi this is Ryan Weller I'm here on the
floor of CES 2014 we're out in front of
this eing foof where we're going to take
a look at the new Faraday bike it's an e
bike which is totally beautiful this is
gonna be the first time where you have a
chance to look at the production run
that's going to be shipping the people
who pre-ordered it really soon so I'm
here with Adam who's the founder of
Faraday tell me a little bit about how
you got started building this thing yeah
so Faraday's come a long way we started
off as a concept
when I was at IDEO the design firm
basically we were asked to build the
ultimate city bike for a big bike design
contest and we built a bike we called
the Faraday that was kind of our vision
of what an electric bike could be and
that got so well received people were so
excited about that that we spun it out
launched a company launched on
Kickstarter last fall and now a year
later we're about to ship our first
bikes in a couple of months and not this
is kind of the bike that's sort of a
full circle of that process okay
excellent and it's it's a road bike but
it's also an e-bike right well yeah
what's what's powering this thing so
it's got a motor in the front wheel
right there motor there and then just a
regular geared hub in the back there's a
battery that's built right into the
frame and so when we kind of went out
and looked at other Evite's
what was out there we were pretty put
off by kinda what we saw it was a lot of
big clunky hulking battery packs hanging
out you know here or here and it really
affected the way the bike looked and
rode and felt and so with this we wanted
to make a lightweight ebike that was
beautiful that housing power and range
and everything else and so that's kind
of what John is here yeah it's gonna say
I've seen a fair number of e-bikes at
this point and this is really beautiful
so you've got like the batteries hidden
in here in the tube it's built right in
the frame yucca and then this this a lot
of people often think that this in the
back is where the battery is this is
actually the brain of the bike really so
the controller in here that runs the
motor that runs the rear lights exudes
lights in the back there and the light
in the front that's all powered in the
back there and then it runs sort of
through the frame of the motor okay
and how powerful is it like will it just
like sort of drive you down the street
so one thing we've done is really taken
a lot of care with the assist so that
you don't feel like it's driving in the
street
it's kind of like it almost sneaks up on
you you just feel like you are
incredibly strong it's actually it's
really cool ok so like in numbers is 350
watt motor what that really means it'll
do about three times your power so if
you put out about a hundred watts it'll
put about 300 and it adds quite a lot of
power so it'll take you about 20 miles
an hour kind of possibly cruising around
the city nice upright comfortable
feeling cool and you can adjust that
right yeah exactly so this actually
we're here at the en booth this is um
this isn't yet display in the screen
there it just shows you how much battery
is left okay in the thing you can turn
it off right there or put it in kind of
a low or a high mode we call the high
boost mode that's kind of like the
Superman okay it's faster you can go
okay so you guys start shipping this
this is for pre-orders that you had how
much did this cost
so we pre-sold this for 3500 starting on
Kickstarter and then reselling it since
then and we've pre-sold about 200 of
those okay they're all sold out the
first run before
but we're really psyched to get those
out to those people who've been waiting
for a long time really patiently your
backers are awesome and yeah if we
starting in March we're gonna be
shipping into those first two in the
people and then anyone else who's
interested in getting a pre-order can
place one on a website now and that next
production run will come hopefully mid
to late summer okay well thanks for
showing it off I can't wait to try it
out for myself
I know I'm looking forward to giving you
a spin cool thanks